[< Back](../README.md)

# Final Self-Assessment - Brandon Starcheus

Since I was the only member of my team, I contributed everything: research, design, development, testing, documentation, presentation materials, and more. While the development took up the most time, the most challenging portion was the design. There were several times when I hit a roadblock that required rethinking or restructuring the problem, which took several days of thinking, researching, and talking with my advisor to solve. I'm happy that I did this project alone because I had the freedom to make those major changes, and I learned the most because I was responsible for everything. As expected, throughout this project I built upon my skills in Python programming, design, reinforcement learning, deep analysis of problems, and presentations. 

There were several major things I learned this year. First, in RL the problem formulation (or fitting your problem to RL) is the most important part. As the project progressed I found new necessary revisions to make everything work as intended. However, this lead to my second realization that even if everything is correct in theory, running it in practice may lead to different results. Since this was my first time working with RL we had selected a simpler way of solving the problem, and although it was theoretically capable of handling the problem, it was not feasible in practice. Luckily, from my research throughout the project I know what solutions are much more applicable to the problem, and I can continue on from here. Despite the issues with the overall solution, the project was a success because we witnessed the RL agent gain lots of skill in the game with no prior knowledge. The greatest obstacle, then, was my lack of experience which led to us choosing a simpler approach. Now that I have this experience and knowledge I can dive even further into this and other problems with much more confidence and efficiency.

I was a solo team, so the Team Assessment does not apply.
