[< Back](../README.md)

# Individual Capstone Assessment - Brandon Starcheus

Over the course of the next year I will begin my journey in reinforcement learning (RL), which will continue into the following year for my MS Thesis. I am currently working with my advisor to find a specific problem related to a real-life application or games (a common RL application). There are many different methods and strategies for implementing an RL solution, but they all revolve around creating an agent which explores an environment to learn based on the reward they receive. It learns by trial and error, similar to how children learn how to interact with the world around them. There is no "training data" or rules to learn from as a baby, but you instead learn from interacting with the environment. RL implementations can vary greatly, whether they use any combination of value functions, policies, and models. My goal for the project is to critically analyze the problem and construct an RL solution that fits the problem and brings great value to the overall solution.

I have been lucky to gain some great experience in my coursework at UC which will allow me to take on this project. First, Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071) was very helpful in showing me my interests and strengths. I enjoy the study of algorithms, their analysis, and the logic behind it. I was equally enthused during the AI Principles (CS 4033) course, which introduces even more algorithms. It will also be especially helpful to this project due to the connections we made to other topics like probability and statistics, as well as games. All of these areas are closely related to reinforcement learning, and I will use the analysis and refinement of algorithms to arrive at a better solution. Finally, taking Compiler Theory and Practice (EECE 5183) was definitely the best preparation for this senior project. It was my first experience taking on a large solo project while learning new complex topics and implementing them along the way. This will be very similar to my experience during senior design, though the subject will be completely unrelated.

My co-op experiences have been just as critical in preparing me for this project. I've had three terms at Northrop Grumman as a Cyber Software Engineering Co-op, where I worked on a large variety of things with many different tools. The most benefit definitely came in my second term where I used Python to build a testing framework to verify the implementation of a hardware project. Python is now my strongest language and I may use it for the senior project. However I think this co-op taught me the most about research and learning throughout the design process, working on a solo project, and pivoting when an idea or feature does not turn out as expected. All of these will be essential in my work this year. In my last term, I was a Software Compatibility Engineering Co-op at Apple. I further developed my skills in software design and development, working mostly with Apache NiFi and Python. During this work I did lots of analysis of the efficiency of the tasks and refining with new optimizations. I also greatly improved my skills in presentations, both in the content creation and the performance. I think it will be especially helpful at the end of this project to be able to concisely convey the important details in an engaging format. It will also be essential to analyze a situation to find the base problem, and convey the need for a solution to the audience.

I am very excited to start another large solo project, especially one with this complexity. Over the last two years I have spent time studying RL to form a foundation of knowledge, so I am happy to have the chance to further my knowledge with hands-on, real-world experience. While RL is connected to other branches of AI and ML, I've been really intrigued because it seems so distinctly different. It seems to operate like we do: observing an environment, taking actions, and learning from rewards or negative consequences. Although we are a long way from AGI, it is promising that RL operates similar to how many organisms live their lives. I'm very excited to see how AI evolves to be capable of more things, instead of having dedicated AI for specific tasks. 

My goal for this project is build an RL solution that brings great value to the problem space that we choose. To accomplish this I will first critically analyze the problem so that I can select the best type of solution (Value Based, Model Free, Model Based, etc). Based on this conclusion I will construct an RL solution that fits the type and structure of the problem. After getting something that functions properly I will experiment, analyze, and continue to iterate to find better solutions. I predict that in preparation for my MS Thesis, I will eventually focus on specific optimizations and strategies that will make my solution unique. In order to self evaluate the solution, I will analyze the results so far. With my limited knowledge, I think the ideal solution should be accurate, precise, and efficient in its storage and time usage. I will frequently meet with my advisor to discuss progress, and if a solution does not show promise it may be useful to pivot to a different RL approach. Overall, this project will succeed because of consistency in hard work. I'm excited to see where it will take me.